# minitalk (110 / 125)

# Project Information

The purpose of this project is to code a small data exchange program using UNIX signals.

Keep in mind:

You have to handle errors sensitively. In no way can your program quit unexpectedly (Segmentation fault, bus error, double free, etc).

Your program cannot have memory leaks.

You can use one global variable but it must be justified.

# Mandatory
Produce server & client executables

client must communicate a string passed as a parameter to server (referenced by its process ID) which then displays it

Use SIGUSR1 & SIGUSR2 signals ONLY

# Bonus
Add reception acknowledgement system

Support Unicode characters

# Intro to signals

Signals are standardized messages sent to a running program to trigger specific behavior, such as quitting or error handling. They are a limited form of inter-process communication (IPC), typically used in POSIX-compliant operating systems.
When a signal is sent. the operating system interrupts the target process normal flow of executing to deliver the signal. Execution can be interrupted during any non-atomic instruction. If the process has previously registered a signal handler, that routine is executed. Otherwise, the default signal handler is executed.
A signal is an event generated by the UNIX and Linux systems in response to some condition. Upon receipt of a signal, a process may take action.
A signal is just like an interrupt; when it is generated at the user level, a call is made to the kernel of the OS, which then acts accordingly.
There are two types of signals:

 - Maskable: signals which can be changed or ignored by the user (e.g., Ctrl+C)
 
- None-Maskable: Signals which cannot be changed or ignored by the user. These typically occurs when the user is signaled for non-recoverable hardware errors.

Handling signals

Signal handlers can be installed with the signal(2) or sigaction(2) system calls. If a signal handler is not installer for a particular signal, the fefault handler is user. Otherwise the signal is intercepted and the signal handler is invoked.
The signals are defined in the header file signal.h as a macro constant. Signal name has started with a “SIG” and followed by a short description of the signal. So, every signal has a unique numeric value. Your program should always use the name of the signals, not the signals number. The reason is signal number can differ according to system but meaning of names will be standard.
The macro NSIG is the total number of signal defined. The value of NSIG is one greater than the total number of signal defined (All signal numbers are allocated consecutively).
